1. Install docker in linux: sudo yum install docker -y

2. To know the version : docker -v

3. To check the docker status : sudo service docker status

4. To run the docker : sudo service docker start

5. To stop the docker : sudo service docker stop

6. To know the docker images : docker images

7. To remove the sudo before docker command : sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

        Note: Then restart the instance for changes 

8. To pull the image from dockerhub : docker pull imagename

        ex. docker pull ubuntu

9. To run the image : docker run imagename

        ex. docker run ubuntu

10.To run the pull image along with enter into the container : docker run -it imagename

        ex. docker run -it centos
            a) 'it' means interactive terminal

11.To know the running containers : docker ps

12.To list all the containers : docker ps -a

13.To enter into the existing container : docker exec -it containerid /bin/bash
                                          docker attach containerid
14.To exit from container : press ctrl+pq

15.To run image and you dont want enter into container : docker run -itd imagename

16.To stop the container : docker (kill or stop) container id 

17.To remove the container : docker rm containerid

18.To remove the images : docker rmi imagename

19.To get all detailed info of container/images : docker inspect containerid/imagename

20.To copy the data from localmachine to container : 
          ex. docker cp filename containerid:/opt(give path where to copy)

21.To copy data form the container :
           ex. docker cp containerid:/opt(path of file) .(means present dir)

22.To Image a container : docker commit containerid my-image-name

23.To run http server from container and map a port to container : 
          ex. docker run -itd -p 80:80 imagename
              note : start httpd server

24.To configure dockerhub to your local docker machine : docker login

25.To push image to dockerhub : docker push imagename :
      a) Before that first tag your image and push to dockerhub
           ex. docker tag imagename tagname(yerukalasudheer/centos)
      b) Then push to dockerhub
           ex. docker push imagename(yerukalasudheer/centos)
      c) To push versioning ur image just give number to ur image tag otherwise it takes latest
           ex. docker push yerukalasudheer/centos:2
      d) To name a container : docker run -it --name container_name image_name
            ex. docker run -it --name sudheer centos

26.To list the volumes : docker volume ls

27.To create a volume : docker volume create volumename

28.To attach a volume to container : docker run -it -v volume_name:/opt imagename
           ex: docker run -it -v demo:/opt/ centos

29.To remove volume : docker volume rm volume_name

30. to sync volume to your to local machine : docker run -it -v /opt:/opt centos

31.To buld image from docker_file : docker build -t tag_name -f docker_filename pathofdockerfile
            ex. docker build -t tmg -f sudheer /home/ec2-user

32. To Delete all unused containers, unused networks, and dangling images : docker system prune

33. List running containers. Also provides useful information about the containers :
           ex. docker container ls -a -s
34. TO Kill all running containers. : docker container kill $(docker ps -q)

35. To Delete all containers that are not running : docker container rm $(docker ps -a -q)

36. To Delete all images. Careful with this one : docker image rm $(docker images -a -q)
           
